=head1 Hulk Smash

We've all heard how HTML5 and CSS3 make for an impressive cross-device
mobile development platform. Let's see how we can use the latest web
standards to design a browser-based mobile application to edit
photographs you snap with the handset's camera. We'll explore ways to
incorporate device orientation and gesture into the interface, both to
navigate within an image gallery, and to adjust images.  So far, such
gestural interfaces are unfamiliar, and thus pose real challenges all
around, but we'll use this as an exercise to explore what's possible
without weighing whether users will prefer them.

This tutorial takes a quick romp through many different browser
features, using rough prototype code that avoids web frameworks in the
interest of clarity, and that ignores all sorts of complex problems
and necessary optimizations about which you can comment below.  The
application uses touch events to navigate within a gallery interface,
and CSS transforms and transitions to animate these navigations. It
uses CSS media queries to contextually display portrait- and
landscape-orientated images, and HTML5 progress elements to keep track of
where you are in each part of the gallery. It uses the Device
Orientation API to add more complex gestural interface navigation
modes, either one image at a time or flipping through them
quickly. The HTML5 Multimedia API provides simple audio feedback. To
round out the basic application shell, it uses the FileReader API to
add new images from the handset's camera.

The second half of the tutorial focuses on the Canvas API as a way to
edit images. Touch events trigger various editing modes that crop
photos, magnify the display, outline freehand selections, or add
drawings.  Session storage provides a clipboard for copy and paste
operations, and the History API allows users to undo any of their
mistakes. Local storage allows users to save their changes for good.
Finally, the application uses an additional gestural mode to adjust
the image's brightness and contrast, and the HTML5 meter element to
help fine-tune the gesture.

=head2 A Photo Gallery Interface

 * Basic semantic structure: ol > li

 * add/remove DOM nodes

 * CSS transforms; translate() to push neighboring images offscreen

 * CSS transitions to swipe & fade

 * nav element: [+]. [<]?

=head2 Simple Touch Navigation

 * Not always so simple!

 * threshold touch by comparing touchstart/touchmove coordinates

 * (ignore multipoint touch; used for crop & magnification)

 * navigating past bookends triggers bounce-back keyframe animation

=head2 Contextual Display

 * viewport to disable browser's magnification

 * init phase: calculate img orientation

 * display based on orientation media query

 * app needs to track 2 sets of images

 * orientationchange event

=head2 Progress Bars for Navigational Context

 * apply full-screen transparency

 * restyle <progress> on webkit, mozilla

=head2 Navigating by Flick Gestures

 * cache gesture state

 * simple flick gesture based on raw accelerometer values

=head2 Navigating by Tilt Gestures

 * a separate gesture-only navigation app mode

 * different set of 3D transforms for cover flow UI

 * tilt degree modifies rate of setTimeout() fire

=head2 Adding Images

 * file input, no form

 * limit to image input

 * from device image gallery, possibly from camera

 * FileReader API

 * add to gallery

=head2 ___ Cropping Images

 * two-point touch defines crop rect; rescale based on new dimensions

=head2 Magnifying Images

 * support pan?

 * is point between touch points the transform-origin?

=head2 Freehand Selections

 * touchmove

=head2 Copy and Paste

 * Session storage?

=head2 Drawing

 * touchmove

=head2 Undo

 * Session History API

=Image Adjustment

 * beta (rotateX) or brightness

 * gamma (rotateY) for gamma

http://mobile.smashingmagazine.com/2012/07/19/do-mobile-desktop-interfaces-belong-together/

