Represents content to flow among various block ''region''
elements. The '''NamedFlow''' interface allows access to both the
content of the flow and the series of regions in which it displays,
and helps determine if the content exceeds or falls short of the
number of regions necessary to display it.

Specifying an identifier for any element's
[[css/properties/flow-into|'''flow-into''']] CSS property diverts its
content to a corresponding '''NamedFlow''' object. Other elements that
specify the same identifier as their
[[css/properties/flow-from|'''flow-from''']] property serve as a chain
of ''regions'' that dynamically display the content.  (The
'''NamedFlow''' object is still available with NULL content if those
properties are later removed.)

Use the [[dom/apis/document/getNamedFlows|'''getNamedFlows''']] method
to gather named flows from a document.

[[css/cssom/NamedFlow/firstEmptyRegionIndex|'''firstEmptyRegionIndex''']]
Returns the index of the first empty element within a region chain

[[css/cssom/NamedFlow/overset|'''overset''']] Indicates whether a
flow's contents exceed available space within a region chain.

[[css/cssom/NamedFlow/name|'''name''']] Name of the flow,
corresponding to value specified by
[[css/properties/flow-from|'''flow-from''']] or
[[css/properties/flow-into|'''flow-into''']] CSS properties.


NAME

== NamedFlow ==

== 6.1. The NamedFlow interface ==

Contains content used to flow text among various block region elements

A named flow is created when it becomes referenced by the ‘flow-into’
and/or ‘flow-from’ computed values. The following APIs allow scripts
to reference a NamedFlow object representation of a named flow.

The NamedFlow interface offers a representation of a named flow
instance.

The NamedFlow interface can be used for different purposes. For
example, the getRegionsByContent() method can help navigate by
bookmark: a script can find the regions that display a particular
anchor and bring them to view.

Likewise, the interface allows authors to check if all content has
been fitted into existing regions. If it has, the overset attribute
would be false.

interface NamedFlow : EventTarget {
  readonly attribute DOMString name;
  readonly attribute boolean overset;
  sequence<Region> getRegions();
  readonly attribute integer firstEmptyRegionIndex;
  NodeList getContent();
  sequence<Region> getRegionsByContent(Node node);
};

